+++
title = "version 0.0.1 - current situation & start"
date = 2024-06-17
draft = true
+++

Hi, I'm Kiro (21M), and my life is a bit of a mess. 

# Life, lately.

Starting about 5 years ago, I've been doing the absolute bare minimum to live and "going with the flow." 

Life has roughly been a repetitive cycle of:
- Wake up
- Low effort but fun activities (Watching YouTube, browsing social media, reading comics, etc)
- (Make)/Eat lunch
- Low effort but fun activities
- (Make)/Eat dinner
- Low effort but fun activities + snacking
- Sleep

If a deadline approaches, I would just study intensely or do the assignment for about 3-5 hours the night before it's due. This has an unreasonably decent success rate, but it is a horrible habit and it won't work forever.

# Problem set

After thoroughly reflecting on what my life has become, I have come up with the following list of things I would like to fix.

1. Extremely inconsistent sleep schedule
	- **Current situation:** I tend to gravitate towards sleeping at 4-5 AM, but occasionally shift back to around midnight. My average sleep schedule in 2024 so far has been a sleeping time of 3:20 AM and a wake-up time of 9:53 AM. However, these times often fluctuate by up to ±2.5 hours. 
2. Dependency on dopaminergic activities
	- **Current situation:** I've been absolutely hooked on mainly YouTube and/or Instagram. I'm specifically very vulnerable to short-form content doomscrolling. I can avoid it upon waking up, but I tend to get hooked after the following triggers:
		- Instagram: Seeing the app icon in my app list or checking the app after receiving a message from someone.
		- YouTube: Checking recommended videos on the sidebar after/while watching a video for learning purposes.
		
		There are also other activities that have a similar effect on me, such as reading comics, reading novels, reading news, but they are much less severe.
	- **Current countermeasures:** 
		- If I do have Instagram installed, I have it hidden away from my app drawer and installed a minimalist launcher such that none of my app's icons are visible when scrolling through my app list. Otherwise, it's uninstalled.
		- I have uninstalled the YouTube app from my phone and use a website blocker to block it on the browser. However, disabling and re-enabling the blocker is something I do often.
3. Inability to fully commit
	- **Current situation:** It has been about 7 years since I was last able to put my full 100% into doing any one thing. I feel like this is because I'm unconsciously creating the excuse of "I failed because I half-assed it."
4. Low perseverance
	- **Current situation:** I have been unable to do anything, no matter how small, consistently for an extended period of time (>1 month), be it exercise, studying, etc. This is because I tend to give up easily when I need to engage in activities that strain me mentally or physically.
5. Difficulty gaining/maintaining/deepening friendships
	- **Current situation:** I only realized about 4 years ago that my social health was actually important. As such, I'm a bit late when it comes to learning how to socialize and how friendships work. 
		- Gaining friendships: Having conversations with me is pretty difficult and regularly turns into silence unless you share a lot of interests with me, but that's extremely rare as I'm not interested in most mainstream things. I feel like I'm very easily forgettable.
		- Maintaining friendships: I try to check up on people I know sometimes, but most of the time, it feels like a one-way street. Friendships sometime feel like a single-player game, where I only get a response if I do something first. Then again, maybe I'm just not reaching out to enough people.
		- Deepening friendships: I currently do not have any close friends, and all the conversations I have are usually very shallow in depth, like small talk. I feel like I lack the social experience needed to engage in more vulnerable topics.
		As a consequence of all this, feeling lonely is a common occurrence.
6. Self-centeredness
	- **Current situation:** I am really bad at paying attention when it comes to things I'm not interested in. I only partake in things only if I like them. Additionally, during conversations, I constantly fail to empathize with other people, I have the bad habit of always wanting to one-up someone else's experience, and I also have the bad habit of somehow making a conversation about me. I feel like I don't really listen when the conversation isn't about me.
7. Very sedentary lifestyle
	- **Current situation:** I spend the vast majority of my day either at my computer or in bed. I seldom exercise. My average step count is around 3k if I don't go outside, and about 5k if I do.
8. Snacking throughout the day
	- **Current situation:** I often eat snacks, usually at night in the hours before sleeping. It's an unhealthy habit I would like to break. That said, this is among the less urgent problems as my snacking habit isn't entirely out of control.
9. Low self-esteem/confidence/worth
	- **Current situation:** I don't really contribute to society, and due to my lack of perseverance, my confidence in my ability to get anything done constantly goes down. It feels like I always overpromise and underdeliver. I have a roof over my head, food on the table, and stable finances. Tons of people could achieve way more things if they were in my shoes, yet here I am, rotting away.
10. Low attention span
	- **Current situation:** Due to constantly consuming content, I feel like I won't pay attention to anything unless the information is basically spoon-fed to me. This has caused me a lot of difficulty academically (lectures effectively put me to sleep) and socially (I am a horrible listener).
11. Lacking self-organization skills
	- **Current situation:** I only use a calendar to keep track of important events. Keeping track of tasks, deadlines, etc are basically not done at all, causing a lot of things to be done last-minute. Tasks sometimes build up without my knowledge to the point that they become overwhelming. I'm often scared to take on opportunities as I feel like I'll be too disorganized to follow through.

# Previous attempts

I have previously attempted to get certain aspects of my life together, which are listed here in chronological order.
- Journaling 
	- I tried this in an attempt to vent frustrations in hopes of being able to stop thinking about my problems and therefore would be able to focus on more important, present things. However, I eventually realized that my life was in a really boring cycle, and thus there was not much to journal. This made maintaining consistency hard, and so I ultimately gave up.
- Using self-organization apps
	- This was done to make tasks easier to do, as it would take the "what should I do now" out of the process of getting things done. This was very effective at first, but eventually, tasks piled up to the point that they became visually overwhelming, and some tasks took entire days to complete. These two reasons led to me avoiding the apps and giving up.
- Using habit trackers
	- This was done to make/break bad habits, but checking in on the app on a daily basis was quite difficult as I kept forgetting. The main issue was actually when tracking habits that had to be done on a non-daily basis (like once every 2-3 days), as I kept forgetting to do them. As I kept forgetting, this ended up being a way for me to beat myself up over consistently failing to do things consistently, eventually leading to me quitting tracking habits.

# Changing things

To tackle my problems for (hopefully) the last time, I want to use the approach of assessing my current issues, planning out a set of actions to take for a set time frame, and repeating as many times as required. All this will be documented in this series of posts, in hopes of reminding me of the progress I've made so far.

This time, the overarching goal isn't to become a crazy productive workaholic or anything like that, but rather to be able to:
- Have a general daily routine that maintains my 
